The **GlaS@MICCAI'2015: Gland Segmentation** dataset used in GlaS@MICCAI'2015 challenge consists of 165 images derived from 16 H&E stained histological sections of stage T3 or T4 (The T in TNM cancer staging refers to the spread of the primary tumour. In colorectal cancer, stage T3 means the tumour has grown into the outer lining of the bowel wall, whereas stage T4 means the tumour has grown through the outer lining of the bowel wall. The cancer stage is different from the tumour histologic grade, as the latter indicates the aggressiveness of the tumour.) colorectal adenocarcinoma. Each section belongs to a different patient, and sections were processed in the laboratory on different occasions. Thus, the dataset exhibits high inter-subject variability in both stain distribution and tissue architecture. The digitization of these histological sections into whole-slide images (WSIs) was accomplished using a Zeiss MIRAX MIDI Slide Scanner with a pixel resolution of 0.465µm. The WSIs were subsequently rescaled to a pixel resolution of 0.620µm (equivalent to 20× objective magnification). 

A total of 52 visual fields from both malignant and benign areas across the entire set of the WSIs were selected in order to cover as wide a variety of tissue architectures as possible. An expert pathologist (DRJS) then graded each visual field as either ‘***benign***’ or ‘***malignant***’, according to the overall glandular architecture. The pathologist also delineated the boundary of each individual glandular object on that visual field. Authors used this manual annotation as ground truth for automatic segmentation. Note that different glandular objects in an image may be part of the same gland. This is because a gland is a 3-dimensional structure that can appear as separated objects on a single tissue section. The visual fields were further separated into smaller, non-overlapping images, whose histologic grades (i.e. benign or malignant) were assigned the same value as the larger visual field. This dataset was also previously used in the gland segmentation study by Sirinukunwattana et al.

In the challenge, the dataset was separated into *train*, *test_a*, and *test_b*. Note that the data were stratified according to the histologic grade and the visual field before splitting. This was done to ensure that none of the images from the same visual field appears in different parts of the dataset (i.e. train, test_a, or test_b). However, since the data were not stratified based on patient, different visual fields from the same slide can appear in different parts of the dataset. The ground truth as well as the histologic grade which reflects morphology of glandular structures were provided for every image in the Training Part at the time of release. Authors used test_a and test_b as off-site and on-site test datasets respectively. Furthermore, to ensure blindness of evaluation, the ground truth and histologic grade of each image in the test parts were not released to the participants.
